welcome to now you're cooking I'm chef
Ali and I'm so glad you could join me
today I'm here in the high V Topeka
clubroom cooking from our beautiful
showroom kitchen provided by Fisher
kitchen and bath last week I showed you
a cool technique for making a really
flaky pie crust and today I've made one
of those up ahead of time and here in my
bowl I actually already made up my sunny
lemon meringue filling as you can see I
took this bowl and I made a water bath
by setting this over a pan of boiling
water just cooking this until it got
about the consistency of mayonnaise now
take care not to boil your filling or
guess what you're gonna get curdled egg
filling and that's not what we want the
very last thing I need to add to make
this really nice and sunny and bright is
my lemon zest and remember in the past
I've showed you how it's important just
to get the very bright part of the zest
not that white part down in there that's
the pith and that's very very bitter we
don't need that in our pie filling today
so I'm just gonna tap that into my
filling and stir that in really quickly
and then we're gonna put this right into
our pre baked crust
I bake this at a 450 degree oven to get
that nice and golden brown and crispy
and then I let it cool completely before
I actually put my pie filling in here
now the next component of this pie is a
very important component it is the
meringue and I have people tell me all
the time chef alie I can't make meringue
it either
weeps or it contracts it's just a
struggle but this is a really great
recipe and by the way this is available
at WIBW com or you can go to chef Ali's
blog spot.com to get this recipe but
here in my mixer we're actually gonna
beat this is seven egg whites and we're
gonna beat these just until they're
foamy it'll just take a second
low-speed
okay maybe medium-speed will turn that
off we lift this back up and now we want
to add our sugar we're gonna give these
another beat this time we're going to
beat him not until they're dry but until
they're nice and stiff so we're gonna go
to high speed okay there we go
now we're gonna raise this up again and
as you can see as I'm lifting these up
they're still not quite stiff enough but
we're going to go ahead and add just a
pinch of salt here's our pure vanilla
extract okay and then lastly this is
your secret weapon this is just a little
bit of corn starch that I cooked down
with some boiling water let it cool
completely and this is what we're gonna
add to our egg whites that is gonna make
you the most beautiful meringue that you
have ever seen mile-high meringue back
in we go and we're gonna beat it again
this time until it's very very stiff
this is the final beating of our
meringue we don't want to over beat it
because that'll cause us to break our
egg whites let me see if I can get this
bowl loose sometimes this is the hardest
part and here's our meringue we're just
gonna spread this over the top of our
pie and when you put this on your pie
you're gonna think oh my gosh that's way
much tumor in too much meringue for that
little pie but you use every last drop
of this meringue on your pie because
this is going to give you like I told
you earlier mile-high meringue and
that's what we want on this pie now
another secret for this is we're going
to put our push our meringue past the
edge of our crust to the pan okay so go
over the top of the edge of your crust
and seal this right along the edge of
your pan the other secret is since this
is such a nice thick meringue we want to
put it into just a 350 degree oven and
that's going
allow our meringue to cook all the way
through without getting too browned on
the outside so we're going to put it in
the oven right on the centre rack at 350
degrees for probably 15 to 20 minutes
okay now once I've got this spread all
the way to the edge then we're going to
come here in the middle and we're just
going to lift up this sinner kind of
make it give it the appearance of a nice
soft fluffy cloud like that and then
we'll check these edges to see if
there's anything hanging down and into
the oven we go our lemon meringue pie is
ready to come out of the oven but I
wanted to show you something instead of
pulling your pie out of the oven using
stiff hot pads like this which can flop
up and ruin either the crust or the
meringue on your pie get some nice thick
soft tea towels out of your towel drawer
make for sure they're nice and dry
because if these happen to be a little
bit damp and you touch your pie in the
oven that can go right through there
creating steam and then you're gonna get
a nice burn on your hands so nice dry
soft tea towels we're gonna come over
here pull your rack out partway like
this see how beautiful our pie is and
then because these are pliable you can
reach right under the edge of that lip
of that pie plate and then set your pie
right here okay now look how beautiful
and tall our meringue still is it's
golden brown when I juggle it or when I
move my pan you can see there's just a
little bit of jiggle but that tells me
that it's set all the way through so
what we would do is cool this completely
then when we slice it we'll have those
nice big tall pieces of yummy sunny
lemon meringue pie look for this recipe
at WIBW comm or chef Ali's blog spot.com
and please come and see us here at your
hometown hive east or better shut my
oven
where we make your life easier healthier
happier
I'm chef Ali and remember now you're
cooking